# Introduction
This is Avnet's IoTConnect Image Classification Demo for STM23 MP2, with AWS Sagemaker 
and OTA updates support.

While MP1 devices can be supported in theory, getting the python packages to install
can pose an issue due to limited availability of pre-compiled native python packages 
for armv7l (vs. the aarch64 for MP2). Therefore, MP1 support is not included in this project.

This project demonstrates how a Tensorflow base model can be converted to TFLite format 
and uploaded to a device with IoTConnect OTA with an application that can read images 
from a MIPI CSI-2 or a USB camera and perform image classification inference on the device
with a Mobilenet V2 model.

# Device Setup

## Image Flashing

Follow the ST Instructions to flash the OpenSTLinux Starter Package image to your device at 
[https://wiki.st.com/stm32mpu/wiki/Category:OpenSTLinux_starter_packages](https://wiki.st.com/stm32mpu/wiki/Category:OpenSTLinux_starter_packages)

The instructions provided in this document are tested with the StarterPackage version 6.0.0.
Keep in mind that once the package is downloaded, the actual version may differ. For example:
```5.0.3-openstlinux-6.6-yocto-scarthgap-mpu-v24.11.06``` was tested with STM32 MP135F.

The overall process with STM32CubeProgrammer is fairly complex and can be lengthy. 
As an advanced but faster alternative, we suggest to explore the option of downloading the starter package, 
and running the *create_sdcard_from_flashlayout.sh* utility instead in the scripts directory
of the package in order to create an SD card image. 
This SD card image can then be flashed onto the SD card with the *dd* 
utility, Rufus, Balena Etcher and similar on other OS-es.

## Display Setup

While technically a display is not required to run the application,
it makes it possible to properly position objects in front of the camera 
while having a preview of camera's positioning.

Connect a display via an HDMI cable or use an appropriate LVDS display.

As a last resort it is possible to capture a screenshot of the camera on the device (once the installer has been run), 
transfer the screen capture to your PC and examine it:
```bash
# do not run the application while doing this:
v4l2-ctl -d /dev/video0 --set-fmt-video=width=640,height=480,pixelformat=MJPG
v4l2-ctl -d /dev/video0 --stream-mmap --stream-count=1 --stream-to=camera.jpg
```

> [!WARNING]
> If you are running without a display, the keyboard interrupt with CTRL-C will not work.
> Use CTRL-Z and run ```kill %1``` to stop the application.

## Camera Setup

It is recommended to use a USB Camera that can provide images at a good frame rate.
For example, any Logitech USB camera should suffice or ST MIPI CSI-2 Cameras supported by this board.  

Ensure to restart the board after plugging in the camera to ensure proper order 
of camera devices provided by the kernel.

You should verify that your camera appears as /dev/video0. For example:
``bash
v4l2-ctl --list-devices
....
HD Pro Webcam C920 (usb-482f0000.usb-1.2):
	/dev/video0
	/dev/video1
	/dev/media0
``

Useful Read: [STM32MP2 V4L2 camera overview](https://wiki.st.com/stm32mpu/wiki/STM32MP2_V4L2_camera_overview)



## Software and Device Install Steps

Once the device has been flashed with the required image, connect the board's network connection 
and determine the IP address of your device
either by connecting to the USB console with a terminal emulator program and typing ```ifconfig```
or querying devices on your subnet with ```nmap``` on Linux - for example if your local subnet is 192.168.38.*
you may get an output like this:
```bash
nmap -sP 192.168.38.* | grep -v latency
...
Nmap scan report for stm32mp2-e3-d4-fc (192.168.38.141)
...
```

The device IP will be used in next steps. 

## Prepare The Application

An installer script is provided with  the application that simplifies the installation for your MP2 device.
In order to prepare for running the script, first copy the application into the ```app``` directory on the device:

```bash
device_ip=192.168.38.141
scp -rp app root@$device_ip:
```
Import a new IoTConnect template in your IoTConnect account using [app/staiicdemo-device-template.json](app/staiicdemo-device-template.json)

Create a new device using an autogenerated certificate in your account and download the certificate into the root of this repo.
The certificate can be downloaded navigating to 
Devices -> Device -> YourDevice -> Info Panel (on the left) -> connection info (link on the right)
and then click the orange certificate with a green download arrow.

Download the ```iotConfigJson.json``` file into the root of this repo by clicking
the Paper-and-cog icon above the *connection info* link.

Upload the files into the ```app``` directory on the device with SCP:
```bash
scp *certificates.zip  root@$device_ip:app/
scp iotcDeviceConfig.json  root@$device_ip:app/
```

SSH to the device and execute the installer:
```bash
cd ~/app
bash device-setup.sh
```


The setup script will create a virtual environment with necessary packages installed at ```.venv-staiicdemo``` in user's home.
It will also download pre-quantized model from ST:
* mobilenet_v2_1.0_224_int8_per_tensor.nb: Network Binary Graph (NBG) model.
* mobilenet_v2_1.0_224_int8_per_tensor.tflite: TFLite model.

The models will perform similarly, but are provided for reference and ease of use for  evaluation.

To launch the application on the device, connect with SSH and run these commands at the prompt:
```bash
cd ~/app
source ~/.venv-staiicdemo/bin/activate
python3 app.py -m mobilenet_v2_1.0_224_int8_per_tensor.nb
```

Once the application runs a model, the latest running model file path will be recorded into the ```model-name.txt``` file.
This model file will be read from the same file if the application does not take the ```--model-file``` command line argument. 
When a new model has been downloaded with OTA in later steps, if you need to re-run the application
you can simply run the app without the model argument.

```bash
python3 app.py
```

# Model Quantization Setup

Quantization should be running on your PC or AWS Sagemaker.

The provided code in the [quantization/](quantization) directory can:
* Quantize a base model to TFLite format suitable for MP2 with Per-Channel or Per-Tensor quantization.
* Run the same quantization on SageMaker with provided harness in the [sagemaker/](sagemaker) directory.
* Push the quantized model to the device using the IoTConnect credentials.

It is recommended to use a Python Virtual Environment for this project. 
The size of installed Python packages can exceed 2GB, so cleaning up after evaluation
should be made simpler.

An example with bash on Linux:
```bash
python3 -m venv --system-site-packages ~/.venv-staiicdemo
```

With the virtual environment created, activate it, and ensure that it is always activated for the next steps.
```bash
source ~/.venv-staiicdemo/bin/activate
```


## Calibration Data Setup

In order to make calibration data available for TFLite quantization, calibration
data in the "NPZ" format is required.

### Using the Pre-Made Calibration Dataset
* 
* Download the pre-made Calibration Dataset from [this link](https://downloads.iotconnect.io/ai-data/mobilenet-v2/calibration.npz)
as [data/calibration.npz](data/calibration.npz)

Or with Wget:
```bash
cd data/
wget https://downloads.iotconnect.io/ai-data/mobilenet-v2/calibration.npz -O calibration.npz
```

## Making your own calibration dataset

Optionally, you can create your own calibration dataset.

* Download the dataset from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/titericz/imagenet1k-val as [data/archive.zip](data/arzhive.zip)
* Unzip the file into the data/ directory.
* Run this command:
```bash
cd data/
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python3 python3 generate-representative-dataset.py
```

## Running The Quantization Locally

First, install the required packages

```bash
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
# has to ber manually installed on the local PC due to sagemaker compatibility:
python3 -m pip install iotconnect-rest-api
```

Get familiar with the application and options by obtaining help output from the quantize.py script:
```bash
cd quantization/
python3 quantize.py --help
```

Crate a per-channel and a per-tensor model:
```bash
python3 quantize.py --output-model=quantized-pc.tflite
python3 quantize.py --output-model=quantized-pt.tflite --per-tensor  
```

> [!NOTE]
> WIP: While Per-Channel quantized inferences 7x faster on the device
> we are not able to produce a model that can reliably recognize images.
> We will be working with ST to find the best way to solve the issue. 

Three files will be created in the [models/](models) directory:
* quantized-pc.tflite: Per-channel quantized model.
* quantized-pt.tflite: Per-tensor quantized model.
* base_model.h5: The input model will be saved for reference.

You can transfer these files manually using SCP:
```bash
scp -rp models/*.tflite root@$device_ip:app/
```


# OTA Support

One can pass --send-to=my-device-id as argument to quantize.py script and send the 
newly converted model to the device directly.

Learn more about how to configure IoTConnect REST API before proceeding at
[this link](https://github.com/avnet-iotconnect/iotc-python-rest-api).

You can either export the required IoTConnect RESP API account values as 
environment variables or pass them explicitly to the tool with specific
command line arguments that can be obtained when running the tool with --help:

```
  --iotc-username IOTC_USERNAME
                        Your account username (email). IOTC_USER environment variable can be used instead.
  --iotc-password IOTC_PASSWORD
                        Your account password. IOTC_PASS environment variable can be used instead.
  --iotc-platform IOTC_PLATFORM
                        Account platform ("aws" for AWS, or "az" for Azure). IOTC_PF environment variable can be used instead.
  --iotc-env IOTC_ENV   Account environment - From settings -> Key Vault in the Web UI. IOTC_ENV environment variable can be used instead.
  --iotc-skey IOTC_SKEY
                        Your solution key. IOTC_SKEY environment variable can be used instead.
```

Example with environment variables set up:
```bash
python3 quantize.py --output-model=quantized-pc.tflite --send-to=my-device-id
# or from sagemaker/ directory (see AWS Sagemaker setup below):
python3 sagemaker-run.py --output-model=quantized-pc.tflite --send-to=my-device-id
```


# Quantizing With AWS Sagemaker

AWS Sagemaker can be used for model quantization. This allows for easy future integration with support for fine-tuning
the model before quantization with the performance that Sagemaker provides.

The [sagemaker-run.py](sagemaker/sagemaker-run.py) script provides the integration with AWS CLI 
to execute [quantize.py](quantization/quantize.py) script within sagemaker, using a similar CLI
interface of quantize.py. You would provide the same CLI argument to sagemaker.py that you would to quantize.py.

## AWS Account Setup

AWS CLI will need to be installed and up. 
Follow [this guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html) to install 
AWS CLI on your system.

Configure the CLI with:
```bash
aws configure
```
and follow the prompts.

Now that the AWS CLI has been set up, set up the environment to run quantization in your account by running commands below.
Review the [setup-bucket-data.sh](sagemaker/setup-bucket-data.sh) script to ensure that it complies with your account
admin's policies, or modify it to suit your needs. Alternatively, you can manually set up a sagemaker role for your account
and modify the [setup-bucket-data.sh](sagemaker/setup-bucket-data.sh) and 
[sagemaker-run.py](sagemaker/sagemaker-run.py) scripts accordingly.

```bash
cd sagemaker/
source ~/.venv-staiicdemo/bin/activate # form the previously created virtual environment
pip install -r requirements.txt
bash setup-bucket-data.sh
```

Run the application similarly to how you would run ```quantize.py```:
```bash
python3 sagemaker-run.py --output-model=quantized-pc.tflite
```

Quantization will run on AWS Sagemaker and transfer the model to your PC into the ```models``` directory.

# Further Exploration

You can install the [stedgeai](https://wiki.stmicroelectronics.cn/stm32mpu/wiki/ST_Edge_AI:_Guide_for_STM32MPU)
tool and convert your model to .nb format like this:
```bash
f=quantized-pc
stedgeai generate -m $f.tflite --target stm32mp25
mv stm32ai_output/$f.nb .
rm -rf stm32ai_*
scp ../models/$f.nb    root@$device_ip:models/
```

It is possible to convert the TFLite model to ONNX format:
```bash
pip install tf2onnx
python -m tf2onnx.convert --opset 16 --tflite models/quantized-pc.tflite --output models/quantized-pc.onnx
```

We may address this issue in the future, but the ONNX model will run slower than TFLite or an NBG model.

# Troubleshooting

The application expects the camera devices to be in certain order. 
If the USB camera happens to be plugged in on boot, this expectation will be invalidated,
and we need to re-order the devices.
In most cases, unplugging the USB camera nad powering off the device should solve the problem.

If the application fails to detect the camera, do the following to try reset the state:
- Remove the USB camera.
- Clear the udev data:
```bash
rm -rf /run/udev/data/*
rm -rf /var/lib/udev/data/*
poweroff
```
- Remove the power and plug it back in.

# U-Boot notes:
  207  apt install u-boot-fw-config-stm32mp
  208  which fw_printenv
  210  fw_printenv bootargs
  211  cp /etc/fw_env.config.mmc /etc/fw_env.config
  212  fw_printenv

